---
toc: true
title: Javascript Overview
---

## Introduction
Get started with JavaScript basics through our easy-to-follow documentation, perfect for beginners looking to kickstart their automation journey. This documentation is curated for javascript used for automation testing using webdriverio.

## Javascript Training Module
First step is to complete the Javascript training module. 

A javascript training module should have been assigned to the you. Check in teams `Left Navigation Menu > Training > My Training`

If the training module is not assigned. Reach out to your manager.

Follow the instructions mentioned below during the training module:
1. Watch all the videos without skipping.
2. Make proper notes for the concepts learned.
3. Write code for every concept and commit on a regular basis.
4. Take reference from the web for more information regarding any concept.
5. Do not try to complete teh module quickly, take time to cover every concept thoroughly.

## Javascript Test
After completing the training module, you should complete a test which is assigned to evaluate your javascript knowledge based on the training module.

Below are the details for the test:

**Task:** Create a To-do list using Javascript and Basic HTML/CSS.

Functionalities which you include in this task. 
1. When clicking on the enter button task should appear in the Frontend & page should not reload and refresh. 
2. By clicking on the checkbox the task should disappear and Should mark it as completed. 
3. By clicking on the show all task button, All the tasks should show completed and Non completed. 
4. The task should be deleted when you click on the delete button. 
5. You have to add the warning (Are u sure to delete this task ?) When you click on delete.

After completing the test, create a video of the code and implementation and show it to you manager for approval.

Once JavaScript is complete, go ahead with the next step i.e. WebDriverIO.