---
title: Update Basic Configs
---

::alert{type="info"}
How to use VaahFlutter   
There are 2 ways to use VaahFlutter for your project.

1. Download the repository and develop your APP on top of it, for this you need to change some configurations for bundle identifier, package name, app icon, and splash screen. [Check this section.](#_1-download-the-repository-and-develop-your-app-on-top-of-it)

2. Use VaahFlutter in your new/existing project. This will need copying core directories and packages in your project. [Check this section.](#_2-use-vaahflutter-in-your-newexisting-project)

We believe first one is little bit easy process in comparision of second. As you don't need to study VaahFlutter directories before starting the integration.
::

## 1. Download the repository and develop your APP on top of it.

[Click here](https://github.com/webreinvent/vaahflutter/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) to download the repository.

### How to change the Package Name/ Bundle Identifier, and App Name?

Let's say you want to change the package name/ Bundle identifier from `com.webreinvent.vaahflutter` to `domain.company.appname`.

::alert{type="info"}
Note:   
To avoid renaming the package and bundle identifier, you can start your project using this command in your terminal:

```bash
flutter create --org domain.company appname
```
::


#### For Android

##### Change package name

###### Step 1:

Change the package name in your `AndroidManifest.xml` (locations: `root/android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`, `root/android/app/src/debug/AndroidManifest.xml` and `root/android/app/src/profile/AndroidManifest.xml`, according what environment you want to deploy).

From
```xml{2}
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    package="com.webreinvent.vaahflutter">
```

To
```xml{2}
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    package="domain.company.appname">
```

###### Step 2:

In your `build.gradle` (`root/android/app/build.gradle`) file inside the app; change applicationId

From
```groovy{5}
android {
    ...
    defaultConfig {
        // Specify your unique Application ID (https://developer.android.com/studio/build/application-id.html).
        applicationId "com.webreinvent.vaahflutter"
        ...
    }
    ...
}
```

To
```groovy{5}
android {
    ...
    defaultConfig {
        // Specify your unique Application ID (https://developer.android.com/studio/build/application-id.html).
        applicationId "domain.company.appname"
        ...
    }
    ...
}
```

###### Step 3:

Change the package name in `root/android/app/src/main/kotlin/com/webreinvent/vaahflutter/MainActivity.kt`

From
```kotlin
package com.webreinvent.vaahflutter
```

To
```kotlin
package domain.company.appname
```

###### Step 4:

Change the directory name

From
```
root/android/app/src/main/kotlin/com/webreinvent/vaahflutter/
```

To
```
root/android/app/src/main/kotlin/domain/company/appname/
```

##### Change the app name

If you want to change your app's name that is displayed everywhere,

Change the `android:label` in your `AndroidManifest.xml` (locations: `root/android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`, `root/android/app/src/debug/AndroidManifest.xml` and `root/android/app/src/profile/AndroidManifest.xml`, according what environment you want to deploy).

From
```dart{2}
<application
        android:label="VaahFlutter"
        android:name="${applicationName}"
        android:icon="@mipmap/ic_launcher">
```
To
```dart{2}
<application
        android:label="Your App Name"
        android:name="${applicationName}"
        android:icon="@mipmap/ic_launcher">
```

---

#### For iOS

##### Change bundle identifier

Change the `CFBundleIdentifier` (bundle identifier) value in your `root/ios/Runner/Info.plist` file.

If you check the value is not hardcoded there and is coming from the variable called PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER
```xml{2}
<key>CFBundleIdentifier</key>
<string>$(PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER)</string>
```

So to change the value of that variable search for `PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER` in the project you will get it's been used 3 times (for debug, profile, and release mode) in `ios/Runner.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj` file. At all those 3 places change it

From
```swift
PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER = com.webreinvent.vaahflutter;
```

To
```swift
PRODUCT_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER = domain.company.appname;
```

##### Change app name

Change the `CFBundleDisplayName` (bundle display name) value in your `root/ios/Runner/Info.plist` file.

From
```xml{2}
<key>CFBundleDisplayName</key>
<string>VaahFlutter</string>
```

To
```xml{2}
<key>CFBundleDisplayName</key>
<string>Your App Name</string>
```

### How to change the package name and description in pubspec.yaml?

::alert{type="danger"}
Note:   
Changing the app name in pubspec.yaml can cause errors in package imports
::

Change `name` and `description` properties in `root/pubspec.yaml`

From
```
name: vaahflutter
description: VaahFlutter, is all about app essentials.
```

To
```
name: your_app_name
description: Your app description.
```

## 2. Use VaahFlutter in your new/existing project.

### Copy core directories and packages in your project.

- `root/assets`
- `root/lib`
- `root/packages`
- `root/pubspec.yaml`

#### Check the documentation for how to use different components

- [Essesntials](../essentials/app.md)
- [Core](../core/logs_and_performance.md)
- [Vaah Components](../directory_structure/vaahextendflutter/base/controller.md)

---



::alert{type="info"}
Future plans   
TODO: implement VaahFlutter as a package.
::

## 3. Change App Icon

We use [flutter_launcher_icons](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_launcher_icons) to change app icon.

### Step 1: Prepare the Source Image

### Step 2: Configure the Pubspec.yaml File

In your Flutter project, open the pubspec.yaml file. This file contains metadata and dependencies for your app. To generate app icons automatically, you'll need to add the `flutter_launcher_icons` package as a dev dependency.

### Step 3: Prepare the Icon Generation Configuration

Create a new file in the root of your project called `flutter_launcher_icons.yaml`. In this file, you will define the configuration for generating app icons.

Add the following content to flutter_launcher_icons.yaml:

```yaml
flutter_icons:
  android: true
  ios: true
  image_path: "assets/icon.png"
```

In the above configuration, make sure to replace `"assets/icon.png"` with the path to your high-resolution source image.

### Step 4: Generate App Icons

Now that you have configured the icon generation, run the following command in your project's root directory to generate the app icons:

```shell
flutter pub run flutter_launcher_icons:main
```

### Step 5: Test the Generated Icons

Build and run your Flutter app on different devices or simulators to ensure that the generated app icons appear correctly and are properly scaled for each platform.

## 4. Change Splash Screen

We use [flutter_native_splash](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_native_splash) to change launch screen.

### Step 1: Prepare the Splash Screen Image

Generally I recommend showing logo on top of colored container (full screen). So I just use logo for `Prepare the Splash Screen Image` step.

### Step 2: Configure the Pubspec.yaml File

In your Flutter project, open the pubspec.yaml file. This file contains metadata and dependencies for your app. To generate a splash screen automatically, you'll need to add the `flutter_native_splash` package as a dev dependency.

### Step 3: Prepare the Splash Screen Generation Configuration

Create a new file in the root of your project called `flutter_native_splash.yaml`. In this file, you will define the configuration for generating the splash screen.

Add the following content to flutter_native_splash.yaml:

```yaml
flutter_native_splash:
  image: "assets/icon.png"
  color: "ffffff"
```

In the above configuration, make sure to replace `"assets/icon.png"` with the path to your high-resolution splash screen image. Additionally, you can customize the `"color"` value to match your app's branding.

### Step 4: Generate the Splash Screen

Now that you have configured the splash screen generation, run the following command in your project's root directory to generate the splash screen:

```shell
flutter pub run flutter_native_splash:create
```

### Step 5: Test the Splash Screen

Build and run your Flutter app to see the generated splash screen in action. The splash screen will appear briefly when launching the app and then transition to your app's main screen.
