---
toc: true
title: Tester's Roadmap
---

## Introduction
This documentation contains a comprehensive guide for new joiners as a software tester. This roadmap is designed to equip testers with the tools, strategies, and best practices necessary to ensure the quality and reliability of software products.

## The Roadmap
Follow each steps added in the roadmap one by one. Complete the documentation added as a reference on the steps.

#### Step 1: Git & GitKraken Training
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/2.git-overview.md){:target="_blank"} to complete the Git & GitKraken training.

#### Step 2: Javascript Training
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/3.javascript-overview.md){:target="_blank"} to complete the javascript training for webdriverIO.

#### Step 3: WebdriverIO Training
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/4.webdriverio-overview.md){:target="_blank"} to complete the webdriverio training for automation testing.

### Web

#### Step 4: Setup a WebdriverIO project for Web
Follow the steps added in this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/6.web/0.setup-new-project.md){:target="_blank"} to setup a project using webdriverIO.

#### Step 5: Web Automation using WebdriverIO
Follow this documentation: [Basics of Web Automation](../9.testing/2.automation/6.web/1.basics-of-web-automation.md){:target="_blank"} to get an overview of how to automate website using webdriverIO.

#### Step 6: Automation Testing Process
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/4.automation-testing-process.md){:target="_blank"} thoroughly to learn about the Automation Testing Process we follow. Carefully study all the configuration mentioned in the referred docs.

::alert{type="warning" class="flex items-center p-2 mb-4 text-sm text-yellow-800 border border-yellow-300 rounded-lg bg-yellow-50 dark:bg-gray-800 dark:text-yellow-300 dark:border-yellow-800" role="alert"}
**Note:**    
Before moving on to the **Mobile App** section, make sure you have a complete hands-on for the web automation testing using WebdriverIO. **Do not start Mobile App automation before completing the web automation.**
::

### Mobile App

#### Step 7: Setup a WebdriverIO project for Mobile App
Follow the steps added in this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/7.mobile/0.flutter-automation-setup.md){:target="_blank"} to setup a project using webdriverIO for mobile application.

#### Step 8: Mobile Automation using WebdriverIO
Follow this documentation: [Basics of Mobile Automation](../9.testing/2.automation/7.mobile/1.basics-of-mobile-automation.md){:target="_blank"} to get an overview of how to automate using webdriverio.

#### Step 9: Automation Testing Process
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/4.automation-testing-process.md){:target="_blank"} thoroughly to learn about the Automation Testing Process we follow. Carefully study all the configuration mentioned in the referred docs.

### Common Issues and Solutions
If any issues occur during the setup or configuration. Refer to this [documentation](../9.testing/2.automation/1.common-issues-and-solutions.md){:target="_blank"} for solutions.

Upon successful completion of the mentioned steps, you will have acquired a foundational understanding of writing automation scripts inclusive of custom reporting and formatting capabilities.