---
toc: true
title: Tester's Roadmap
---

## Introduction
This documentation contains a comprehensive guide for new joiners as a software tester. This roadmap is designed to equip testers with the tools, strategies, and best practices necessary to ensure the quality and reliability of software products.

## The Roadmap
Follow each steps added in the roadmap one by one. Complete the documentation added as a reference on the steps.

### Step 1: Javascript Training
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/1.automation/2.javascript-overview.md){:target="_blank"} to complete the javascript training for webdriverIO.

### Step 2: WebdriverIO Training
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/1.automation/3.webdriverio-overview.md){:target="_blank"} to complete the webdriverio training for automation testing.

### Step 3: Setup a WebdriverIO project for Web
Follow the steps added in this [documentation](../9.testing/1.automation/2.web/0.setup-new-project.md){:target="_blank"} to setup a project using webdriverIO.

### Step 4: Web Automaation using WebdriverIO
Follow this documentation: [Basics of Web Automation](../9.testing/1.automation/2.web/1.basics-of-web-automation.md){:target="_blank"} to get an overview of how to automate website using webdriverIO.

### Step 5: Setup a WebdriverIO project for Mobile App
Follow the steps added in this [documentation](../9.testing/1.automation/3.mobile/0.flutter-automation-setup.md){:target="_blank"} to setup a project using webdriverIO for mobile application.

### Step 6: Mobile Automation using WebdriverIO
Follow this documentation: [Basics of Mobile Automation](../9.testing/1.automation/3.mobile/1.basics-of-mobile-automation.md){:target="_blank"} to get an overview of how to automate using webdriverio.

### Step 7: Common Issues and Solutions
If any issues occur during the setup or configuration. Refer to this [documentation](../9.testing/1.automation/1.common-issues-and-solutions.md){:target="_blank"} for solutions.

### Step 8: Automation Testing Process
Follow this [documentation](../9.testing/1.automation/2.testing-process.md){:target="_blank"} thoroughly to learn about the Automation Testing Process we follow. Carefully study all the configuration mentioned in the referred docs.