---
Configuration
---




## Introduction


It is often found that applications are required to be configured for multiple environments and VaahCMS makes it easy to keep the configures for all the environments. By default, VaahCMS inspires from `gitflow` naming convention for the environments. During the setup of VaahCMS you need to choose the `Env` which represent environment for which you're setting up the application. It has following options:

1. `Custom (Features branch)`: If multiple developer are developing features, in that case they can have their own `.env` file.
2. `Local (Features branch)`: This is when you're setting up the application on your local computer.
3. `Develop (Develop branch)`: This is when you're setting up the application on your development server.
4. `Staging (Release or Hotfix branch)`: When you want release certain feature or want to do hotfix before deploying the code to production.
5. `Production (Master branch)`: Live/Production application.



## Environment Configuration

::alert{type="warning"}
NOTE   
Once the VaahCMS setup is complete, it generates a `vaahcms.json` file on the root of the project folder. `vaahcms.json` file contains the `APP_URL` of different environments and respective `env` files.
::


|  Environment      | `env` File      |
| ----------------- | --------------- |
| Local             | .env.local      |
| Develop           | .env.develop    |
| Release or Hotfix | .env.staging    |
| Production        | .env.production |

You can manage the `.env` variables from the `backend` control panel from `Settings > Env Variables`.
