# Local notifications

[[toc]]

::: tip Note:
We use PushNotifications class and not LocalNotifications class whenever needed in project becuse of [the given reasons.](../1.notification.md#best-practices-using-the-pushnotifications-class)
:::

## Overview

The LocalNotifications class interacts with the flutter_local_notifications package to handle local notifications in a Flutter app. It provides methods to initialize the service, ask for permission, push local notifications, and handle notification events.

## Dependencies

Before using the LocalNotifications class, make sure you have the following dependencies set up in your Flutter project:

flutter_local_notifications.dart: Dependency for handling local notifications.
timezone.dart: Dependency for working with timezones.
Ensure that you have imported these dependencies before using the LocalNotifications class.

## Usage

This section explains how to use the LocalNotifications class and its various methods.

### Initializing

To initialize the local notification service, call the init method. This method sets up the flutter_local_notifications plugin with the necessary configuration.

```dart
await LocalNotifications.init();
```

This is done in push/notification.dart, so we use PushNotifications class only whenever needed.

### Disposing

When you no longer need the local notification service, make sure to dispose of the resources by calling the dispose method.

```dart
LocalNotifications.dispose();
```

### Asking Permission

To ask the user for permission to display local notifications, use the askPermission method.

```dart
bool? permissionGranted = await LocalNotifications.askPermission();
```

The method returns a boolean indicating whether the user granted permission for local notifications.

This is also handled by main `PushNotifications` class, so we don't need to call this method directly.

### Pushing Notifications

To send a local notification, use the push method. This method takes a PushNotification object as a parameter.

```dart
await LocalNotifications.push(notification: pushNotification);
```

The notification parameter is a PushNotification object representing the local notification to be sent. Ensure that the id, heading, and content properties are set accordingly.

By default, the notification will be scheduled to appear 5 seconds from the current time if no sendAfter property is provided in the PushNotification object.

### Handling Notification Events

The LocalNotifications class provides an internal method, _handleNotification, to handle notification events. This method is called when a notification is tapped or interacted with by the user.

The method receives the notification's payload and action ID as parameters.
Customize the _handleNotification method according to your app's requirements to handle the notification event appropriately.
