---
toc: true
title: Getting Started with I18n
---

::alert{type="info" class="p-4 mb-4 text-sm text-blue-800 rounded-lg bg-blue-50 dark:bg-gray-800 dark:text-blue-400" role="alert"}
Notice:   
- Throughout this document, we will use the following numeronyms to refer to their respective meanings.

|Numeronym | Meaning              | 
|----------|---------             |
| I18n     | Internationalization |
| l10n     | Localization         | 

::

## Why Internationalization?
Internationalization, or "i18n" is crucial in software development for several reasons, they're listed as follows.

### Global Reach
By internationalizing software, developers can ensure that their product can be used by people all around the world, regardless of their language or location. This expands the potential user base and market for the software.

### User Experience
Users prefer software that is available in their native language. Internationalization allows developers to translate user interfaces, error messages, and documentation into different languages, providing a better user experience and making the software more accessible and user-friendly.

### Cultural Sensitivity 
Different cultures have different norms, customs, and conventions. Internationalization involves not only translating text but also adapting the software to accommodate cultural differences. This may include date and time formats, currency symbols, and other cultural preferences.

### Legal and Regulatory Compliance
In many countries, there are legal requirements for software to be available in certain languages or to comply with specific regulations. Internationalizing software helps ensure compliance with these requirements, reducing legal risks and potential barriers to market entry.

### Scalability and Maintenance 
Internationalizing software from the beginning makes it easier to scale and maintain in the long run. Separating code from text and allowing for easy language switching simplifies the process of adding support for new languages and updating existing translations.


## Do I need I18n?
If your NUXT product has the need to serve international clients, or if you plan scale your product internationally; then it is recommended to setup internationalization in your product in the early phases of your product development so that it becomes part of the development pipeline. 


## Let's Get Started 
Move over to the next sections to setup Internationalization in your NUXT Product. 

