---
toc: true
title: Using the Translation Maps
---

## Showing Localized Content
In order to use the translated maps; we have the following methods built inside NUXT and provided to us by `I18n` module.

The methodology is divided in two broad use cases.
Each one of them is described below.

#### Per Component Translations 
If you wish to provide translations per component; i.e each component has it's own copy that is translated as per request, then we use this method. 

```ts
<script setup lang="ts">
const { t } = useI18n({
  useScope: 'local'
})
</script>
```
Declare a varbiable "t" as described above. 

Usage:
```ts
<template>
  <h1>{{ t('home_page.title') }}</h1>
  <button>{{t('home_page.contact_us_button')}}</button>
</template>
```

With the `t()` method, we are accessing the key-value pairs that we created in our locale files. 

Strings and messages are accessed using the `t()` method that we defined in our `script setup`.

We can render `Number` types using the `n()` method and `Date` types using the `d()` method. 

You can find more about these methods [here](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/docs/guide/per-component-translations).

#### Page Translations
If your string or copy that you wish to translate exists on a page and not inside a component; then follow the below method. 

Unlike how we do in per component translation, we do not have to declare any constant in our script setup; instead we can directly call the method `$t()`

Usage:
```ts
<template>
  <h1>{{ $t('home_page.title') }}</h1>
  <button>{{ $t('home_page.contact_us_button')}}</button>
</template>
```

The same logic and condtions apply to other available methods as well, 
- $d() - For Date types
- $n() - For Number types

---
## Conclusion
You must have noticed that the above methods only render the strings from the JSON translation maps that we created, in our case from `en-US.json` file because that is set as the default locale in the config. There is no translation happening. 

In the next section, we will cover how to translate the page on demand using composables available in the `I18n` module. 

Before we jump to the next section, start your project locally and visit the following url:
(Assuming the project is running at port 3000)

```localhost:3000/fr-FR```


You'll the see the page translated to French.
The dynamic strings will consume values from `fr-FR.json` map instead of the default `en-US`.






