---
toc: true
title: Translating
---


## Translation Methods
So far, we've covered the setup process of I18n in our NUXT client and saw translation happening when we visited

```localhost:3000/fr-FR```

How can we translate the page without having the need to visit a dedicated URL?

## setLocale() Method
This method is provided by the I18n module.

::alert{type="info" class="p-4 mb-4 text-sm text-blue-800 rounded-lg bg-blue-50 dark:bg-gray-800 dark:text-blue-400" role="alert"}
Arguments:
- locale as string
::

#### Example Usage:
Inside `template`
```ts
  <h1>{{ $t('home_page.title') }}</h1>
  <button>{{ $t('home_page.contact_us_button')}}</button>
  <button @click="changeLanguageToFrench">
    Change Language
  </button>
</template>
```


Inside `script setup`
```ts
const { setLocale } = useI18n();

const changeLanguageToFrench = () => {
    setLocale("fr-FR")
}
``` 
In the above example, when you click on the `Change Language` button, it changes the locale to the value we passed inside the method `changeLanguageToFrench` as an argument which is `fr-FR`.

## useSwitchLocalePath() Composable
This composable is designed to be used in cases where SSR is involved. Since, during SSR no dynamic changes are present; hence to translate pages that are prerendered - we use the `useSwitchLocalePath()` composable. 

This changes the prefixes the desired locale to the URL; hence translating the page. 

#### Example Usage:

Inside `template`
```ts
<button>
    <NuxtLink :to="switchLocalePath('fr-FR')">
        French
    <NuxtLink>
</button>
```

Inside `script setup`
```ts
const switchLocalePath = useSwitchLocalePath();
```

## useLocalePath() Composable
If you have multiple pages, and route to a different page; That new route will be rendered in the default locale.
To address this, we make changes to how we navigate to our routes.

Unlike how we do it traditionally with `<NuxtLink>`, we have to pass the locale path information to the route as well now. 

This means that if we are currently viewing the French version, then all the subsequent routes we visit should have the `fr-FR` prefix so that our NUXT client knows what locale to pick to render information from.

#### Example Usage:

```ts
<NuxtLink :to="localePath('/about')">
    About Page
</NuxtLink>
```

This will add the current active locale to the prefix to the route like so:

`localhost:3000/fr-FR/about`

## Example Dynamic Dropdown 
This is an example dropdown that allows users to change their locale by picking an option from a drop-down.

#### Template:

```ts
<div>
        <div class="header">
            Pick a Language
        </div>
        <div class="dropdown">
            <select name="languages" v-model="language">
                <option v-for="language in locales" :key="typeof language === 'object' ? language.code : language"
                    :value="typeof language === 'object' ? language.code : language">
                    {{ typeof language === 'object' ? language.name : language }}
                </option>
            </select>
        </div>
    </div>
```

#### Script Setup
```ts
<script setup lang="ts">
const { locales, locale, setLocale } = useI18n();

const language = computed({
    get: () => locale.value,
    set: (value) => {
        setLocale(value);
    }
});
</script>
```

#### Use This Component

Inside Template: 
```ts
<LanguageChanger></LanguageChanger>
```
---
## Conclusion 
This concludes the documentation of the `I18n` module with NUXT. 
There are other use case based composables available in `I18n` module; dicussing which is beyond the scope of this documentation, but if you wish to read more about them; the links are given below. 

- [I18n API](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/docs/api)
- [I18n Guide](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/docs/guide)
- [Routing Strategies](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/docs/options)
