---
toc: true
title: Usage
---

## Starting the Vaah Socket Server
- After successfully setting up the environment, you can start the Vaah Socket server by running the following command in the terminal:
```bash
npm run start
```
- The server will start and will be listening on the port you have set in the environment file.
- The server will be ready to accept connections from the VaahShare app.


## Starting the VaahShare App
- After successfully setting up the environment, you can start the VaahShare app by running the following command in the terminal:
```bash
npm run dev
```
- The app will start but will not be able to connect to the server. You will need to update the socket server URL in the app settings.
- Open the app and navigate to the settings page.
- Update the socket server URL to the URL of the socket server you have set up.
- Click on the save button and then the app will restart automatically.

::alert{type="danger" class="flex items-center p-4 mb-4 text-sm text-red-800 border border-red-300 rounded-lg bg-red-50 dark:bg-gray-800 dark:text-red-400 dark:border-red-800" role="alert"}
The app will restart automatically after saving the settings. but after the restart, if there is white screen, please close the app and start it again.
this is a known issue and only occurs in development mode.
::

##  Initiating Video Recording
- You can start recording the screen only in offline mode. 
- Click on the record button and the recording will start.
- The recording will be saved to `Documents/VaahShare/videos` in `webm` format.
- When you connect to the internet the recording will be uploaded to the server automatically.

##  Screensharing Functionality
- After connecting to the server, you can share your screen with other users.
- First on screen selection dropdown, select the screen you want to share.
- Click on the `Start Streaming` button and the screen will start streaming.

##  Live Stream Display
- On the Vaah Backend, you can see the live stream of the screens shared by the users.
- Navigate to the live stream page and you will see the live stream of the screens shared by the users.
- Navigate to history page and you will see the history of the live streams sessions.
