---
toc: true
title: Stores 
---


## What is Stores?

Just consider a Stores as a digital form of any physical stores.

### How to create a Store?

After activating `VaahStore`, to create a Store go into `VaahCMS > Store > Stores` then click on create button. A form to create Store will open.

### Requirement to create a Store

- [Name](#Name)
- [Is Multi Currency](#is-multi-currency)
- [Is Multi Lingual](#is-multi-lingual)
- [IS Multi Vendor](#is-multi-vendor)
- [Allowed Ips](#allowed-ips)
- [Status](#status)
- [Status Notes](#status-notes)
- [Is Default](#is-default)
- [Is Active](#is-active)

## Details of Requirements

### Name 

This will contain name of the Store.

### Is Multi Currency

If your Store support multiple currency then click on `Yes` else `No`.

#### Currencies

This will apply only after `Is Multi Currency` chose as `Yes`.

All the currency which your store support can be chose in this.

And if you have more than 1 currency please define the default currency in the default currency drop-down, else the first choose currency will be considered as default

### Is Multi Lingual

If your Store support multiple Languages then click on `Yes` else `No`.

#### Languages

This will apply only after `Is Multi Lingual` chose as `Yes`.

All the languages which your store support can be chose in this.

And if you have more than 1 languages please define the default language in the default language drop-down, else the first choose language will be considered as default

### Is Multi Vendor

If your Store support multiple Vendor then click on `Yes` else `No`.

### Allowed Ips

All the Ips which can access your store will be added here.

### Status

This is to set the status of the Store.

### Status Notes

Notes are to describe your decision for any status.

### Is Default

This is to make current store default option for VaahStore.

### Is Active

This is to Activate or Deactivate your store.
