---
toc: true
title: Wishlists
---

## Overview

**Wishlists** are a key feature in e-commerce platforms that allow customers to save and manage items they are interested in purchasing in the future. They enhance user experience by providing a way to track desired products and facilitate future purchases, increasing engagement and potentially boosting sales.

In **Vaahstore**, wishlists are integrated into the backend system to streamline the management of saved items and offer a seamless experience for both customers and administrators.




## Purpose

The primary purposes of the wishlist feature in Vaahstore include:

- **Customer Convenience:** Enable customers to save products they are interested in, making it easier for them to return and complete their purchase later.
- **Enhanced User Experience:** Allow users to organize and manage their desired items, enhancing their overall shopping experience.
- **Marketing Opportunities:** Provide valuable insights into customer preferences and interests, which can be used to tailor marketing strategies and promotions.


## Understand Wishlist

#### Real-Life Wishlist:

You grab a piece of paper or use a note-taking app on your phone.
You write down the title of the book, the author, and maybe a brief note about why it caught your interest.

#### Importance of the Wishlist:

The wishlist serves as a reminder of books you want to read in the future.
When you finish your current book, you can refer to your wishlist to remember the titles and authors of books you found interesting.

#### Benefits:
The wishlist helps you stay organized and prevents you from forgetting about books you'd like to explore.
It makes your next visit to the bookstore more focused, as you already have a list of books you are excited about.


## Key Features
1. **Creating and Managing Wishlists:**
  - **Add to Wishlist:** Customers can add products to their wishlist from wishlist pages or search results.
  - **View Wishlists:** Users can view and manage their saved items in their wishlist section.
  - **Edit Wishlist:** Users can update or remove items from their wishlist.
  - **Multiple Wishlists:** Support for creating multiple wishlists (e.g., “Birthday Gifts,” “Home Decor”).

2. **Sharing Wishlists:**
  - **Shareable Links:** Users can share their wishlists with friends or family via unique shareable links.
  - **Social Media Integration:** Option to share wishlists on social media platforms.

3. **Integration with Shopping Cart:**
  - **Move to Cart:** Allow users to move items from their cart details directly to their wishlists for a seamless checkout experience.
  - **Save Cart Items:** Option to save cart items to a wishlist if users are not ready to purchase immediately.

4. **Administrative Features:**
  - **Manage Wishlists:** Admins can view and manage wishlists for users, including searching and filtering.
  - **Analytics and Reports:** Track wishlist usage and analyze trends to gain insights into customer preferences and behaviors.


## Features & Demos

The ` Wishlist` CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) functionality offers a wide range of features,
including the ability to display all  Wishlist. Furthermore, it provides bulk actions that allow you
to delete multiple pieces of  Wishlists with a single click and update  Wishlists, offering the following features:

- Create a New `Wishlist`
- Edit/Update the details of an already existing `Wishlist`.
- Clone `Wishlist` details.
- Autofill `Wishlist` fields.
- Sort the `Wishlist` list in ascending/descending order.
- Perform Bulk Actions to change the status, trash, or delete `Wishlist`.
- List All existing `Wishlist`.
- Filter the `Wishlist` list by searching using different `fields`.
- Filter the `Wishlist` list by different status, including trashed `Wishlist`.
- Delete an existing `Wishlist`.
- Delete or temporarily trash an already existing `Wishlist`.


## Create Wishlist

First time when  you interact with `Wishlist` in `VaahStore`, it will appear like this: at the top,
you'll find  `Wishlist ` name, along with options such as a `Create` button for adding new Wishlist,
a `Reload` button for retrieving the entire list of data, and a `dropdown button` for creating multiple entries with a single click.
And a left-side you can access all other crud like store, Wishlist etc.




### Requirement to create a Wishlists

| Fields         |      | Descriptions                                      |
| ------------   | ---- | --------------------------------------------      |
| User           |      | The name of the customer or user creating the wishlist.             |
| Name           |      |    The title or name of the wishlist.          |
| Slug           |      |      A URL-friendly version of the wishlist name.        |
| Is Shareable   |        |    Indicates whether the wishlist can be shared with others.  |            |
| Status         |      | Specifies the current status of the wishlist (e.g., pending, approved).         |
| Status Notes   |      | Additional notes explaining the status decision.|
| Is Default     |      | Indicates whether the wishlist is set as the default option for user.|








## API
---------
## create

##### URL
```php
POST <public-url>/public/api/store/wishlists
```

#### Request samples

```php
parameter = [
    "name",                             // String
    "slug",                             // String
    "vh_user_id",                       // Id
    "taxonomy_id_whishlists_status",    // Id
    "taxonomy_id_whishlists_types",     // Id
    "status_notes",                     // String
   
];
```

#### Response sample

```php
{
    "status": "success",
    "messages": [
        "Saved"
    ],
    "data": {
        ...........
        ...........
        ...........
    }
}
```

## Get List

#### URL
```php
GET <public-url>/public/api/store/whishlists?rows={number_of_rows}
```

#### Response sample

```php
{
    "success": true,
    "data": {
        ...........
        ...........
        ...........
    }
}
```

## Get Record

#### URL
```php
GET <public-url>/public/api/store/whishlists/{record_id}
```

#### Response sample

```php
{
    "success": true,
    "data": {
        ...........
        ...........
        ...........
    }
}
```

## Save Wishlists

#### URL
```php
POST <public-url>/public/api/store/wishlists
```

#### Request samples

```php
parameter = [
    ..........
    'same as create'
    ..........
    "wishlists": {
        "user_id"                // user id
        "id"                      //  id
        "name"                   // String
        "slug"                    // String
    },
];
```










