---
toc: true
title: Basics of Orders
---

## Orders Feature in VaahStore Backend
The orders feature in vaahstore is a critical component that handles the entire lifecycle of a 
customer's purchase. It involves recording, processing, managing, and tracking orders from the moment a 
customer places an order until it is fulfilled and closed. This feature interfaces with various other systems,
such as stock management, payment processing, and shipping logistics.

## Purpose
The primary purpose of the orders feature in an vaahstore is to facilitate and manage the end-to-end process of handling customer orders efficiently. Its goals include:

- **Efficient Order Processing**
   - **Streamlined Checkout:** Ensures a smooth and efficient checkout process for customers, reducing cart abandonment. For checkout process Follow this [documentation](../8.vaahstore/basics/10.carts.md){:target="_blank"} 
   - **Order Accuracy:** Maintains accurate records of customer orders to avoid errors and fulfill orders as requested.
- **Stock Management**
   - **Stock Level Updates:** Automatically adjusts stock levels based on the items purchased to prevent overselling. 
   - **Stock Availability:** Ensures that only available items can be purchased and manages backorders if necessary.
- **Payment Handling**
   - **Important Note:** In Vaahstore, payment can only be processed after placing an order.
- **Order Tracking**
   - Provides customers with updates on their order status, including  shipping, and payment status.
   - **Order Details:** Allows customers and administrators to view the status and history of orders.

## Order Process Flow
The order process generally follows these steps:
### Order Creation
- **Customer Checkout:**
   - **Initiation:** A customer adds items to their cart and proceeds to checkout. For checkout process follow this [documentation](../8.vaahstore/basics/10.carts.md){:target="_blank"}
   - **Order Submission:** The order is placed at checkout page, which collects necessary details such as shipping address, billing address, payment information, order items.

### Order Processing
- **Backend Handling:**
   - The backend validates the order data (e.g., item availability, payment details,shipping and billing details).
   - An order object is created in the database, containing all relevant details (e.g., customer info, items, payment status,customer addresses, initial shipping status as pending).
- **Inventory Management:**
   - **Stock Deduction:** After an order is placed, the stock is updated to reflect the deduction in item quantities listed in product variation page and product stocks crud list page.
### Order Completion
- After the order is placed it redirects to the order confirmation page, it consists of following details as shown below:
- **Tracking Updates:** The system updates the order status based on shipping progress and payment confirmation(post order creation).
- **Completion Status:** The order status is set to completed once the shipping status of the order items is marked as delivered and the payment status is marked as paid.

