# Develop Theme

--------------
##### Introduction

This tutorial will help you to develop theme in VaahCMS.



##### Step 1: Install VaahCMS

Steps to install VaahCMS is available at [click here for VaahCMS installation](/vaahcms-2/getting-started/installation)



##### Step 2: Install VaahCLI

Install NodeJs package `VaahCLI` globally, instructions are available at [VaahCLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vaah).

```shell
npm i vaah -g
```



VaahCLI will help you to quickly generate `Module` & `Theme` scaffolding.

You can effectively use the tool with `Command Generator` at [Generators](/vaahcms-2/generators).



##### Step 3: Generate Theme

::alert{type="warning"}
NOTE:
Let's call the theme as `BlogTheme`. Open the command line tool & navigate to the project root folder or in PHPStorm open `Terminal` and to generate scaffolding for the theme, use following command:
::
To generate `THEME`, use the following command.
```shell
npx vaah cms:theme
```


After running this command, it will ask you following questions, answers also mentioned in `highlighted` text here:

- Name of The Theme you want to create. For example Article.
    ```
    Enter your theme name:  Article
    ```
- Title of the Theme. For example Theme for Article.
    ```
    Enter meaningful title for your theme:  Theme for Article
    ```

- Detailed Description about the Theme.
    ```
    Enter your theme description:  This theme will be for Articles only
    ```
- Name of the person creating the Theme or press enter to go with default value provided.
  ```
  Enter Author name:  vaah
  ```
- Email of the author or press enter to go with default value.
  ```
  Enter Author email:  support@vaah.dev
  ```
- Author website and download url or Press Enter for default value.
    ```
  Enter author website:  https://vaah.dev
  Enter download url: 
    ```
Enter `true` if you want to run migration for this theme as soon as the theme
is activated else select `false`.
```
Do you want to run migration when activated (true/false):  true
```


Once this step is complete, it will generate a new folder at `VaahCMS > Themes > Article`.

Now, you actually activate the theme by visiting following URL:


```http request
<public-url>/backend#/vaah/themes/
```


Once, the theme is activated, you will be able to see the `Article` theme on Public url.

```http request
<public-url>
```
You will see the view generated from the following blade file

```
../<project-name>VaahCms/Themes/<theme-name>/Resources/views/frontend/pages/index.blade.php
```
