---
toc: true
title: Feedback & Suggestions from NUXTLab
description: This document summarizes feedback received from NUXTLab regarding the NUXT 3 application. The feedback is categorized into Architecture, Methodology, Issues, Clean Code, Performance, and Potential Problems.
---

## Architecture

-  Avoid mixing different module systems (e.g., `import` and `require`) within the same configuration or code files to ensure consistency and prevent potential issues.
- `dotenv` is not needed. Node has `.env` support.
- Composables are used within class methods and might lose context. The recommended pattern is to invoke classes or instances inside composables. (`runtimeConfig` or data fetching can cause issues)
- `useHead` shouldn’t be used inside `watch`.
- **`og:url`** and **`twitter:url`** should reflect the current URL.

---

## Methodology

- Ensure a lockfile is included to maintain consistent dependency versions across environments.
- Remove unused files and commented-out code to keep the codebase clean and maintainable.
- Address all type-checking or linting errors to improve code quality and reduce runtime issues.
- Implement a linting setup (e.g., ESLint) to enforce code style and catch potential problems early.
- Security measures needed:
  - Static Application Security Testing (SAST) in CI/CD
  - Snyk for vulnerability testing
  - Protection against Clickjacking
- `.env` file should not be part of the repository.

---

## Issues

- `robots.txt` is not located in the public directory.

---

## Clean Code

- Maintain consistent naming conventions throughout the codebase, avoiding mixing `snake_case` and `camelCase`.
- Use a unified state management approach that aligns with the overall framework (e.g., prefer Composition API style over Options API for consistency).
- Shouldn’t require `qs` library as `$fetch`/`useFetch` supports query objects natively.
- Ensure composables or reusable logic follow standard patterns for clarity and maintainability.

---

## Performance

- Use `nuxt/scripts` to lazy-load third-party scripts.
- UI documentation and Nuxt/content should not be included in the production bundle.
- Avoid globally registering all components, as this can lead to excessive and fragmented JavaScript chunks.
- Monitor and optimize the size of entry files to prevent large initial payloads that can impact load times. Use analysis tools (e.g., `npx nuxi analyze`) to identify bottlenecks.

---
