---
title: Performance Monitoring
---

## 1. Using Sentry

::alert{type="warning" class="p-4 mb-4 text-sm text-yellow-800 border border-yellow-300 rounded-lg bg-yellow-50 dark:bg-gray-800 dark:text-yellow-300 dark:border-yellow-800" role="alert"}
Dependencies   

- [sentry_flutter](https://pub.dev/packages/sentry_flutter)

::



### Use cases

- To enable/ disable all kind of tracking, switch `enableAutoPerformanceTracing`

- Record cold startup time and warm startup time

- Observe Navigation

- Capture User Interactions

- Capture Assets Performance
    
- Observe transactions

- Record Slow and Frozen frames (Yet to implement)

### Auto Performance Tracking

- When `enableAutoPerformanceTracing` flag is set to `false` nothing will be monitored.

### Startup time

- To record cold startup time and warm startup time. Set `autoAppStart` to `true`.

- Provides insight into how long your application takes to launch.

- Startup time is attached to first transaction that happens in app, so if app has no transaction nothing will be recorded. Learn about transactions [here](./logging_library/logging_library.md#log-transactions).

### Capture User Interactions

- To capture User Interactions set `enableUserInteractionTracing` to `true`.

- The UI instrumentation, once enabled, captures transactions and adds breadcrumbs for a set of different user interactions, which include clicks, long clicks, taps, and so on. The SDK composes the transaction name from the key of the Widget that captured the user interaction (for example, login_button). The transaction operation is set to ui.action.click.

- If the view doesn't have the key assigned, the transaction and the breadcrumb won't be captured because it can't be uniquely identified otherwise.

- The key value should be unique across the whole application because the transactions are grouped by its name.

### Capture Assets Performance

- To capture Assets Performance set `enableAssetsInstrumentation` to `true`.

- provides insight into how long your app takes to load its assets, such as files.

### Observe Transactions

- Learn more about transactions [here](./logging_library/logging_library.md#log-transactions).

### Record Slow and Frozen frames (Yet to implement)

## Configuration

- To configure sentry for your project you just have to pass sentryConfig in [environment config](../2.env.md).

- Check [this](https://youtu.be/LWc67Vja5YA) video for, how to get config values.

- To disable all kind of tracing set `enableAutoPerformanceTracing` to `false`.

- To record cold startup time and warm startup time set `autoAppStart` to `true`, check [this](#startup-time) section.

- To record User Interaction set `enableUserInteractionTracing` to `true`, check [this](#capture-user-interactions) section.

- To enable assets instrumentation set `enableAssetsInstrumentation` to `true`.

## How to use?

Just toogle environment flags to enable/ disable monitoring.

## Where is the code that handles this?

base_controller handles the initialization of LoggingServices. So if developer is building on our app or has similar code of `base_controller` in their `core_controller or main` then they are good to go.

```dart
Widget child = await Log.init(
    app: app,
    cloudLogging: config.cloudLoggingServiceType(
    isFirebaseConfigured: isFirebaseConfigured,
   ),
);
```

As you can see depending on environment variables we apply different performance monitoring mechanisms.

So to set those environment variables you need to pass something like shown below

```dart
sentryConfig: const SentryConfig(
    dsn: '',
    enableAutoPerformanceTracing: true,
    autoAppStart: true,
    enableUserInteractionTracing: true,
    enableAssetsInstrumentation: true,
    tracesSampleRate: 0.6,
),
```

## 2. Using Datadog

::alert{type="warning" class="p-4 mb-4 text-sm text-yellow-800 border border-yellow-300 rounded-lg bg-yellow-50 dark:bg-gray-800 dark:text-yellow-300 dark:border-yellow-800" role="alert"}
Dependencies   

- [datadog_flutter_plugin ](https://pub.dev/packages/datadog_flutter_plugin)

::

### Datadog Use Cases

- Enable/disable Datadog logging by toggling enableDatadogLogging.

- Capture and monitor application logs, errors, and crashes.

- Track performance metrics, including Flutter build and raster times.

- Monitor network requests and associate them with RUM (Real User Monitoring) sessions.

- Observe user interactions and session analytics.

- Integrate APM (Application Performance Monitoring) to analyze app performance.

- Capture slow or frozen frames to improve rendering performance.

- Associate logs, metrics, and traces for full observability.

### Datadog Performance Tracking

- Auto Performance Tracking

- When enableDatadogAutoPerformanceTracking is set to false, no performance metrics will be monitored.

### Startup Time

- To record cold and warm startup times, set autoAppStart to true.

- Provides insights into how long the application takes to launch.

- Startup time is attached to the first transaction that occurs in the app. If no transaction takes place, startup time will not be recorded. Learn more about transactions here.

### Capture User Interactions

- To capture user interactions, set enableUserInteractionTracing to true.

- Once enabled, the UI instrumentation captures transactions and logs breadcrumbs for user interactions such as taps, clicks, and long presses.

- The SDK generates the transaction name based on the key of the widget that captured the user interaction (e.g., login_button). The transaction operation is set to ui.action.click.

- If a widget does not have an assigned key, its transactions and breadcrumbs will not be recorded, as it cannot be uniquely identified.

- Keys should be unique across the entire application since transactions are grouped by their names.

### Capture Assets Performance

- To capture asset performance, set enableAssetsInstrumentation to true.

- Provides insights into how long the application takes to load assets, such as images and files.

To set those environment variables you need to pass something like shown below

``` dart
datadogConfig: DatadogConfig(
    clientToken: '',
    applicationId: '',
    site: DatadogSite.us5,
    firstPartyHosts: [],
    nativeCrashReportEnabled: true,
    reportFlutterPerformance: true,
    tracesSampleRate: 0.4,
),
```

Learn more about those environment variables [here](../2.env.md).
