---
toc: true
---

# WebdriverIO Setup
Welcome to the WebDriverIO Setup Documentation! In this comprehensive guide, we will walk you through the essential steps and best practices for setting up WebDriverIO, a powerful and flexible JavaScript automation framework, to supercharge your web testing efforts.

## Contents:
1. Introduction
2. Requirements
3. Cloning Repository
4. Mocha Framework
5. Data File
6. Page Object File
7. Spec File
8. How to generate custom Spec Report


## Introduction
This guide is your roadmap to a seamless setup process, ensuring that you can efficiently write and execute automated tests using WebDriverIO. You will learn about different Mocha framework, what is data file and page object file, how to create these file, how to generate test cases, etc.

Thoroughly read and follow the steps given in each section one by one. Few of the steps mentioned in the documentation may take substantial amount of to complete. Just wait for it complete and then move ahead.

Always read the note if provided for any section. It will give you an overview of what to expect from teh commands.


#### Why WebdriverIO

WebdriverIO is an automation framework built to automate modern web and mobile applications. It simplifies the interaction with your app and provides a set of plugins that help you create a scalable, robust and stable test suite.

You can use WebdriverIO to automate:

- modern web applications written in React, Vue, Angular, Svelte or other frontend frameworks
- hybrid or native mobile applications running in an emulator/simulator or on a real device
- native desktop applications (e.g. written with Electron.js)
- unit or component testing of web components in the browser

#### What You'll Find Here
- Detailed setup instructions for webDriverIO.
- Best practices and tips for configuration.
- Real-World examples to illustrate key concepts.
- Troubleshooting guidance to overcome common challenges.
- Resources to further enhance your WebDriverIO skills.

To learn more about WebDriverIO automation testing framework refer this [blog by thetesttribe.com](https://www.thetesttribe.com/blog/what-is-webdriverio/) on WebDriverIO


## Requirements

- **Node.js** should be installed on your computer.
- **Knowledge of JavaScript**.
- **Package Manager**: npm or yarn (npm comes bundled with Node.js)
- **Code Editor**: A code editor like VSCode or PHPStorm.
- **WebDriver-Compatible Browser**: Common choices are Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox.
 
## Setup WebDriverIO Project

1. Open Code Editor.
2. Create a project.
3. Run command: `npm init -y`. (This creates a node project in that folder that will have a package.json file.)
4. Run command: `npm init wdio`. (This will install webdriverIO on the project)
5. When the command is running, choose appropriate options based on the system.
6. Choose _**spec reporter**_  for test case reporting.
7. Choose _**Mocha Framework**_ for framework.
8. Wait for the command to complete.
9. Once the command has run successfully, It will install some directories and files on the project.
10. Check whether the `wdio.conf.js` file are created or not.
11. There should be some sample test cases which were created during the setup. Verify the same in `test/spec/` directory.
    1. To run the test cases run command:
    > npx run wdio 

    or

    > npx wdio run wdio.conf.js

12. To run specific tests: Run the command:
    > npx wdio run wdio.conf.js --spec test1.js

13. Once the sample test scripts are running successfully, you can modify and create your own scripts.

::alert{type="info"}
Note:
- The points in the Requirement section must be fulfilled before working on the setup.
- Carefully choose the options during the WebDriverIO setup.
- Some commands may take longer time to execute which is expected. Just wait for it to complete. 
- Previous commands must be completed successfully before running the next command.
::

## Mocha Framework



