# Wishlist Crud

## Purpose

A wishlist is a feature often found on e-commerce websites or apps. It allows users to create a 
personalized list of products they are interested in but may not be ready to purchase immediately. 
The wishlist serves as a kind of bookmark or reminder for users to revisit and consider these items
for future buying decisions. It's a user-friendly tool that enhances the shopping experience by helping
individuals keep track of products they find appealing.

## Understand Wishlist

### Real-Life Wishlist:

You grab a piece of paper or use a note-taking app on your phone.
You write down the title of the book, the author, and maybe a brief note about why it caught your interest.

### Importance of the Wishlist:

The wishlist serves as a reminder of books you want to read in the future.
When you finish your current book, you can refer to your wishlist to remember the titles and authors of books you found interesting.

### Benefits:
The wishlist helps you stay organized and prevents you from forgetting about books you'd like to explore.
It makes your next visit to the bookstore more focused, as you already have a list of books you are excited about.


## Features & Demos

The ` Wishlist` CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) functionality offers a wide range of features,
including the ability to display all  Wishlist. Furthermore, it provides bulk actions that allow you
to delete multiple pieces of  Wishlists with a single click and update  Wishlists, offering the following features:

- Create a New `Wishlist`
- Edit/Update the details of an already existing `Wishlist`.
- Clone `Wishlist` details.
- Autofill `Wishlist` fields.
- Sort the `Wishlist` list in ascending/descending order.
- Perform Bulk Actions to change the status, trash, or delete `Wishlist`.
- List All existing `Wishlist`.
- Filter the `Wishlist` list by searching using different `fields`.
- Filter the `Wishlist` list by different status, including trashed `Wishlist`.
- Delete an existing `Wishlist`.
- Delete or temporarily trash an already existing `Wishlist`.


## Overview Of Wishlist Crud

First time when  you interact with `Wishlist` in `VaahStore`, it will appear like this: at the top,
you'll find  `Wishlist ` name, along with options such as a `Create` button for adding new Wishlist,
a `Reload` button for retrieving the entire list of data, and a `dropdown button` for creating multiple entries with a single click.
And a left-side you can access all other crud like store, Wishlist etc.



### How to create a Vendor?

After activating `VaahStore`, to create a vendor go into `VaahCMS > Store > Vendors` then click on create button. A form to create Vendor will open.

### Requirement to create a Wishlists

| Fields         |      | Descriptions                                      |
| ------------   | ---- | --------------------------------------------      |
| User           |      | This will contain name of Customer/User.             |
| Type           |      | This is contain the type of wishlist .           |
| Status         |      | This is to set the status of the wishlist.          |
| Status Notes   |      | Notes are to describe your decision for any status.|
| Is Default     |      | This is to make current wishlist is default option for VaahStore.|


### Conclusion

In essence, the act of storing a wishlist is a strategic and personal choice aimed at enhancing our
lives. By maintaining a wishlist, we create a curated inventory of our aspirations, interests, and 
future plans. It serves as a practical tool, ensuring that valuable ideas, products, or experiences
don't slip away from our awareness. Storing a wishlist allows us to be intentional in our pursuits,
helping us budget, plan, and eventually turn those wishes into reality.







### API
---------
#### create

##### URL
```php
POST <public-url>/public/api/store/wishlists
```

#### Request samples

```php
parameter = [
    "name",                             // String
    "slug",                             // String
    "vh_user_id",                       // Id
    "taxonomy_id_whishlists_status",    // Id
    "taxonomy_id_whishlists_types",     // Id
    "status_notes",                     // String
   
];
```

#### Response sample

```php
{
    "status": "success",
    "messages": [
        "Saved"
    ],
    "data": {
        ...........
        ...........
        ...........
    }
}
```

### Get List

#### URL
```php
GET <public-url>/public/api/store/whishlists?rows={number_of_rows}
```

#### Response sample

```php
{
    "success": true,
    "data": {
        ...........
        ...........
        ...........
    }
}
```

### Get Record

#### URL
```php
GET <public-url>/public/api/store/whishlists/{record_id}
```

#### Response sample

```php
{
    "success": true,
    "data": {
        ...........
        ...........
        ...........
    }
}
```

### Save Wishlists

#### URL
```php
POST <public-url>/public/api/store/wishlists
```

#### Request samples

```php
parameter = [
    ..........
    'same as create'
    ..........
    "wishlists": {
        "user_id"                // user id
        "id"                      //  id
        "name"                   // String
        "slug"                    // String
    },
];
```










