---
toc: true
title: How Clients Connect and Disconnect
description: In this document, we will learn how clients are connected and disconnected.
---

## Handling Client Connection and Disconnection in VaahShare

VaahShare is built on Electron.js, which has a main process and a renderer process. In the context of VaahShare, the renderer process uses Vue.js and can be found in the `src` directory, while the main process is located in the `electron` directory.

When the app loads, the main process starts and creates a new window to load the renderer. Once the renderer process is loaded, socket event handling is managed by the store, which can be found in the `src/store/root.js` file.

### Client Connection and Disconnection on the Client-Side

When the `onLoad` method is called, it invokes `handleSocketEvents`. The `handleSocketEvents` function is responsible for managing all the socket events that occur within the VaahShare application. It handles connection, disconnection, and various custom events related to video streaming and processing.

1. **Handling Connection (`connect` event)**
  - **Connect Event**: When the client successfully connects to the server, it logs the connection and sets a flag (`is_socket_url_set`) to indicate the socket URL is valid.
  - **Machine Info**: It retrieves the machine info using `ipcRenderer` and updates the window title.
  - **Emit Event**: It emits a `client-connected` event to the server with machine info and company ID.
  - **Auto Record**: If `auto_record` is enabled, it stops any current recording, starts streaming, and sets flags accordingly.
  - **Reconnection**: Resets the `is_reconnecting` flag.

2. **Handling Successful Client Connection (`client-connected-success` event)**
  - **Client Connected Success**: When the server acknowledges the client connection, it stops any loading indicators and checks for any local sessions that need to be uploaded.

3. **Handling Client Disconnection (`client-disconnected` event)**
  - **Client Disconnected**: Logs the disconnection event.

## Handling Client Connection and Disconnection on the Server (Fastify)

The server-side code manages client connections by handling the `client-connected` event and processing the connection details through the `handleClientConnection` function. Below is a detailed explanation of how this works:

1. **Handling `client-connected` Event**
  - **Client Connected Event**: When a client connects and sends the `client-connected` event, the server logs the connection.
  - **Logging**: Logs the client's socket ID using `logger.logInfo`.
  - **Handle Client Connection**: Calls the `handleClientConnection` function with the client's socket, Fastify instance, and connection data.
  - **Success Callback**: Upon successful handling, emits a `client-connected-success` event to the client to confirm the connection.

2. **`handleClientConnection` Function**
  - **Log Client Connection**: Logs the client's socket ID.
  - **Track App Closed**: Initializes `trackAppClosed` for the client, setting it to false. This keeps track of whether the client disconnected by closing the app or due to a network issue.
  - **API Call**: Calls `clientsApi.createItem` to store the client's connection details in the server's database or any persistent storage. The data includes:
    - `socket_id`: The unique ID of the client's socket connection.
    - `meta`: The client's machine info (username, hostname, etc.) in JSON format.
    - `user_host`: The user's host name.
    - `company_id`: The client's company ID.
    - `is_connected`: A flag indicating the client is connected.
    - `is_reconnecting`: A flag indicating whether the client is reconnecting.
  - **Clear Timeout**: Clears any existing timeout for the user's host if present.
  - **Broadcast Client Connection**: Emits a `client-connected` event to all other connected clients to notify them of the new connection.
  - **Callback**: Executes the callback function to signal the completion of the connection handling.

3. **Handling Client Disconnection**
  - The `disconnect` event is triggered when a client disconnects from the server. The server logs the disconnection, updates the client's status, and manages reconnections.
    - **Log Disconnection**: Logs the disconnection event using `logger.logInfo`.
    - **Handle Disconnect**: Calls the `handleDisconnect` function to manage the disconnection process.

4. **`handleDisconnect` Function**
  - The `handleDisconnect` function updates the client's status, handles video buffers, and manages reconnection timeouts.
  - **Check App Closed**: If the app was closed by the client, no reconnection is needed. Deletes the entry from `trackAppClosed`.
  - **Update Client Status**: Sets `is_streaming` to false and `is_reconnecting` to true, then calls `handleVideoBuffers`.
  - **Broadcast Reconnection**: Notifies other clients that the client is reconnecting.
  - **Log Reconnection**: Logs the reconnection attempt.
  - **Set Reconnection Timeout**: Sets a timeout to update the client's status to disconnected if they do not reconnect within 60 seconds.

5. **Handling App Closure**
  - **Log App Closure**: Logs the app closure event using `logger.logInfo`.
  - **Handle App Closure**: Calls the `handleAppClosed` function to manage the closure process.

6. **`handleAppClosed` Function**
  - **Log App Closure**: Logs the app closure event.
  - **Track App Closed**: Sets the `trackAppClosed` flag to true for the client's socket ID.
  - **Update Client Status**: Sets `is_streaming` and `is_connected` to false.
  - **Broadcast Disconnection**: Notifies other clients that the client has disconnected.

## Handling Client Connection and Disconnection in the Backend (VaahBackend)

The client handling is managed from the store in the backend. The store is located at `VaahCMS/store/root.js` file. The store is responsible for managing the state of the application and handling socket events. The `handleSocketEvents` function is called when the application is loaded and sets up the necessary event listeners for socket communication.

1. **`initSockets` Method**
  - **Socket Initialization**: Checks if the socket is not already initialized.
  - **Log Socket URL**: Logs the socket URL for debugging purposes.
  - **Create Socket**: Initializes the socket connection using the provided URL and a query parameter to specify the app type.
  - **Binary Type**: Sets the binary type for the socket connection to "arraybuffer".
  - **Handle Socket Events**: Calls the `handleSocketEvents` method to set up event listeners for the socket.

2. **Socket Event Handlers**
  - **`client-connected` Event**
    - **Log Connection**: Logs the `client-connected` event data.
    - **Find Existing Item**: Searches for an existing item in the list by `user_host`.
    - **Add New Item**: If the item doesn't exist, it adds the new data to the list.
    - **Update Existing Item**: If the item exists, it updates the connection status, socket ID, and reconnection status.
    - **Update Live Count**: Increments the live count in the root store.

  - **`client-reconnecting` Event**
    - **Log Reconnection**: Logs the `client-reconnecting` event data.
    - **Find Existing Item**: Searches for an existing item in the list by `user_host`.
    - **Update Reconnection Status**: If the item exists, it sets the `is_reconnecting` flag to true.
    - **Update Live Count**: Decrements the live count in the root store if it's greater than zero.

  - **`client-disconnected` Event**
    - **Log Disconnection**: Logs the `client-disconnected` event data.
    - **Find Item Index**: Searches for the index of the item in the list by `user_host`.
    - **Remove or Update Item**: If the item exists:
      - Removes the item from the list if the current route is `clients.sessions.live`.
      - Otherwise, sets the item's `is_connected` flag to false.
    - **Update Live Count**: Decrements the live count in the root store if it's greater than zero.
