---
toc: true
title: Streaming Flow
description: This section describes the methods used to start and stop video streaming, manage the MediaRecorder, and handle WebSocket communication for streaming video frames.
---

## Streaming Flow in VaahShare

All methods are in `root.js` store which is in renderer process.
- The `toggleStream` method toggles the streaming state.
- If streaming is currently active (`this.is_streaming` is `true`), it calls the `stopStream` method to stop streaming.
- Otherwise, it calls the `startStream` method to begin streaming.

`startStream()` :
- The startStream method initiates the video streaming process.
- It checks if a source ID is selected (`this.selected_source_id`). If no source is selected, it alerts the user to select a source.
- Upon successful validation:
  - Sets the `is_streaming` flag to true.
  - Calls `setupMediaRecorder` to configure the media recorder.
  - Emits a `start-streaming` event via `WebSocket` with relevant streaming details.

`setupMediaRecorder()` :
- The `setupMediaRecorder` method configures the `MediaRecorder` to record the video stream, learn more about [MediaRecorder](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaRecorder).
- Sets the MIME type to `video/webm; codecs="vp8, opus"`.
- The `ondataavailable` event handler:
  - Sends recorded data chunks to the server via WebSocket if data is available and the recorder is in the recording state.
- The media recorder is started with an interval of 2000 milliseconds (2 seconds) to send video frames periodically.

`stopMediaRecorder()` : 
The `stopMediaRecorder` method stops the media recorder if it is active (this.media_recorder is not null).


## Streaming Flow in Server (Fastify)

When a client starts streaming, the server logs the event and updates the client's status. Video frames are received, buffered, and broadcasted. When streaming stops, the server logs the event, processes and saves the buffered video data, and updates the client's status. The video is saved to a specified folder path.


1. `start-streaming` Event:
 - Logs the start of the streaming session.
 - Sets `sendBufferStatus` to `true`.
 - Calls `handleStartStreaming` to update the client's streaming status and notify other clients.

2. `stop-streaming` Event 
 - Logs the stop of the streaming session.
 - Calls `handleStopStreaming` to update the client's streaming status, notify other clients, and process video buffers.

3. `video-frame` Event 
 - Checks if a buffer exists for the client (`data.socket_id`); if not, creates one.
 - Appends the received video frame (`data.buffer`) to the client's buffer.
 - Logs the received video frame.
 - Calls `handleVideoFrame` to broadcast the frame to other clients.

### Handler Functions
1. `handleStartStreaming`:
 - Updates the client's streaming status to `true`.
 - Broadcasts a message to other clients that streaming has started.

2. `handleStopStreaming` :
 - Updates the client's status to `is_streaming: false`.
 - Broadcasts a message to other clients that streaming has stopped.
 - Calls the `handleVideoBuffers` callback to process video data.

3. `handleVideoFrame` :
  - Broadcasts the received video frame to other clients.

4. `handleVideoBuffers` :
 - Combines video frames from the buffer into a single video file.
 - Calls `saveVideoFromArrayBuffer` to save the video data.

5. `saveVideoFromArrayBuffer` :
 - Converts the ArrayBuffer to a Buffer.
 - Generates the folder path `getCompleteVideoPath` for saving the video.
 - Creates the folder if it doesn't exist.
 - Saves the video data as a temporary file.
 - Processes the temporary video file for final storage (further processing steps in next section).
 - Logs any errors that occur

6. `getCompleteVideoPath` :
 - Generates the path for saving the video based on the client's company and user information.


## Handling Streaming in Backend (VaahBackend)

When streaming starts, the client initializes media sources and updates the streaming status. Video frames are received, converted, and appended to the media source buffer. When streaming stops, the client's status is updated, and resources are cleaned up, ensuring seamless video streaming and proper management of video data.
the following functions and events are used to manage streaming in the backend which is located in the `VaahCMS/store/root.js` file.

1. `start-streaming` Event :
 - Logs the start of the streaming session.
 - Sets `streaming_client_id` to the ID of the client that started streaming.
 - Initializes `statistics` for the streaming client.
 - Updates the client's streaming status in the list.
   Calls `initMediaSources` to initialize media sources with the client's socket ID

2. `video-frame` Event :
 - Logs the received video frame.
 - Converts the buffer to a `Uint8Array`.
 - Appends the buffer to the source buffer if the media source is in an open state.

3. `stop-streaming` Event :
 - Updates the client's streaming status in the list.
 - Calls `cleanUp` to clear intervals and perform cleanup actions

### Functions:
1. `initMediaSources` :
 - Initializes a new `MediaSource` for the specified socket ID.
 - Sets the video element's source to the media source object URL.
 - Adds event listeners for `sourceopen`, `sourceclose`, and `sourceended` events.
 - Adds a `SourceBuffer` to the MediaSource and handles updateend and error events.
 - Learns more about [MediaSource](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaSource).

2. `getRemoteVideoElement` :
 - Retrieves the video element with the specified socket ID, with retry logic to handle asynchronous loading.
 - Resolves the promise when the video element is found, or rejects after a specified number of attempts.
