---
toc: true
title: How Video is Processed
description: This section describes how the videos are processed in Vaah Sockets, including the methods used to capture video frames, process video data with ffmpeg, and save the processed video to a specified folder path.
---
## Video Processing in VaahSockets

The `processVideo` function which was located at `src/helpers.js` uses `FFmpeg` to process a video file, generate a thumbnail, and save the video data to the database. It logs progress and handles errors by deleting the input file if processing fails. The `generateThumbnail` function creates a video screenshot, and `handleVideoData` saves video details to the database.

### Functions
1. `processVideo` :
   - Processes the video file, generates a thumbnail, and saves video data to the database.
   - Parameters:
     - `inputPath`: Path to the input video file.
     - `outputPath`: Path to save the processed video.
     - `videoData`: Object containing metadata for the video.
   - Flow :
     - Logs the start of video processing.
     - Initializes `FFmpeg` processing with input format webm.
     - Logs progress and the `FFmpeg` command line.
     - On success, generates a thumbnail and saves video data to the database.
     - On error, logs the error and deletes the input file.
     - Sets `FFmpeg` output options and saves the processed video file.
2. `generateThumbnail` :
  - Generates a thumbnail image for the video.
  - Parameters:
    - `inputPath`: Path to the input video file.
    - `videoData`: Object containing metadata for the video.
    - `callback`: Callback function to handle thumbnail generation.
  - Flow :
    - Logs the start of thumbnail generation.
    - Uses `FFmpeg` to generate a thumbnail image.
    - On success, updates `videoData` with the thumbnail path and calls the callback.
    - On error, logs the error.
3. `handleVideoData` :
 - Saves video details to the database.
 - Parameters:
   - `data`: Object containing metadata for the video.
 - Flow :
   - Attempts to save the video data using `mediaApi.createItem`.
4. `getFolderPath` :
 - Extracts the folder path from a given video file path..
 - Parameters:
   - `videoPath`: Path to the video file.
 - Flow:
   - Splits the video path into parts.
   - Removes the last part (filename) to get the folder path.
   - Returns the folder path.
