---
toc: true
title: How Alerts Works
description: This section describes how alerts work in VaahShare, including the methods used to display alerts, handle user interactions, and manage alert states.
---
## Alert Handling in VaahShare
This documentation explains how the application detects user idle time and handles it by showing a dialog and saving alerts. The flow involves the main process, renderer process, and inter-process communication (IPC) using Electron.

## Components
1. **Main Process (`main.ts`)**
- Listens for the `did-finish-load` event to start the idle timer.
- Manages the idle timer and handles IPC events to toggle the idle time dialog and save alerts.

2. **Renderer Process**
- Handles showing and hiding the idle time dialog.
- Communicates with the main process via IPC to toggle the dialog and save alerts.

## Flow :
1. Start Idle Timer :
  - When the window finishes loading, the `startIdleTimer` function is called to begin monitoring idle time.
2. Idle Timer Function (`startIdleTimer`) :
 - Sets an interval to check system idle time using [powerMonitor]("https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/power-monitor#:~:text=isOnBatteryPower()%20%E2%80%8B,battery%20and%20on%2Dac%20events.").
 - If the idle time exceeds a threshold, the interval is cleared, and the renderer process is notified to show the idle time dialog.
3. Renderer Process Idle Time Handling (`handleIdleTime`) (`root.js`) :
 - Listens for the `toggle-idle-time-dialog` event to show or hide the idle time dialog.
 - If the user is idle, the dialog is shown, and an alert is saved via IPC
4. Idle Time Dialog Close Handler (`onIdleTimeDialogClose`) :
 - Hides the idle time dialog and notifies the main process to resume the idle timer.
5. Main Process IPC Handlers (`main.js`) :
 - Listens for the `toggle-idle-time-dialog` event to start or stop the idle timer based on the dialog visibility.
 - Listens for the `save-alert-user-idle` event to save an alert indicating the user is idle
